Chagigah 27 - During Festivals, all Israel are trusted friends We mentioned (and this is for the last time in this Tractate) that ignorant people, who are not knowledgeable in the laws of ritual purity, cannot be trusted about it: their garments and vessels are considered impure. However, at the Festivals, this changes, and all are treated as trusted friends ("chaverim"). This is based on the phrase "And all Israel gathered to the city as one, and they were friends" ("chaverim"). and on the custom of all Jews to purify themselves and their utensils for the Festivals. Because of this unity, one can open a new barrel of wine for sale. It will be considered ritually pure, even though everybody touches it, including ignorant people. He can even finish selling this wine after the holidays - for otherwise, he would refrain from opening it - in Rabbi Yehudah's opinion. However, the Sages don't go that far, and once the holidays are over, the wine is considered impure. Also, once the Holidays are over, all vessels in the Temple are purified. The two Altars, the copper one and the golden one, are never purified in a mikveh, and people are told to be especially careful and not touch them. On the subject of Altars, Rabbi Abahu gives proof that the Torah Sages are not subject to the fire of Gehinnom, as follows. A salamander (which is created in a fire burning for seven years) is an offspring of fire, and yet a man who smears himself with its blood becomes immune to fire - then how much more so are the Sages, whose body itself is fire! - following the phase, "Here, my words are like fire, says God." Resh Lakish takes this further. His proof is from the Golden Altar, which had a very thin golden covering, but the underlying wood would not waste away for hundreds of years. How much more so are even the sinners of Israel, for even they are full of mitzvot as pomegranates (following the Song of Sons, "Like a pomegranate are your temples ("rakateich") which can be understood as "reikatech" - the empty ones among you - who are still full of mitzvot. Art: Still Life Of Pomegranates Upon A Pewter Dish by Juan De Zurbaran Talk to MosesAI about it