Taanit 18 - Miracles and fasts Several miracles happened to the Jews during the Second Temple, and "The Scroll of Fasts" records when one is not supposed to fast or eulogize the dead because of the miracles that happened on these days. First, the Talmud deals with the details of these prohibitions and then describes the miracles. The daily sacrifice in the Temple has to be brought from communal funds, but the school of Sadducees argued that it should be brought by an individual. The argument lasted for eight days, from the first of Nissan, and the Sages convinced their opponents. This was considered a miracle. The school of Baitus about the date of Shavuot: they understood the word "Shabbat" as Saturday, but the Sages had the tradition that in this context, it means a Holiday of Passover. Again, the Sages convinced them, and this miracle was celebrated for all the days when the argument occurred. A Greek governor Nikanor would wave every day toward the Temple, saying, "When will it fall into my hands, and I will trample it?" When the Maccabees prevailed, they cut off his thumbs and big toes and hung them at the gates of Jerusalem, saying, "The mouth that said it, the hands that waved and the feet that would trample - let revenge be taken against them." Incidentally, they cut off his head, too. Turianus accused the Jews of murdering his daughter. Two men, Lullianus and Papus, stepped up and falsely admitted the crime. Before Turianus executed them, he said, "You are from the people of Chananya, Mishael, and Azarya; let a miracle happen to you!" They answered, "They were perfectly righteous, but we are not, and Nebuchadnezzar was a proper king, but you are a commoner. However, God chose you to execute us so that He can then take revenge against you." Turianus nevertheless killed them right away, and at that very moment, messengers arrived from Rome to execute him in turn. This happened on the twelfth of Adar. Later all these minor holidays were abolished because of subsequent sad events that occurred on these days. Art: Battle between the Maccabees and the Bacchides by Jean Fouquet Talk to MosesAI about it