Taanit 24 - Prayer and the natural order of things Rabbi Mani was a student of Rabbi Yitzhak ben Eliyashiv. Once Rabbi Mani complained that his wife's family members were wealthy, haughty, and mistreated him. "Let them become poor," said Rabbi Yitzhak, and they became poor. Rabbi Mani complained that they were forcing him to work, and Rabbi Yitzchak said, "Let them become rich again," and they become wealthy. Rabbi Mani also mentioned that his wife was homely. "What is her name?" asked Rabbi Yitchak. - "Channa." "Let Channa become beautiful," - said Rabbi Yitzhak. And she became beautiful. But now, she became haughty and ruled over Rabbi Mani, so Rabbi Yitzhak said, "Let Channa return to her homeliness." Later, students of Rabbi Yitzhak asked to pray so that they would become extra bright. He answered, "I don't do such things any longer." Rabbi Yose from Yukrat has a son who supervised his workers. Once Rabbi Yose was late with the worker's food, the son said, "O fig tree, bring forth your fruit for the workers to eat." When Rabbi Yose arrived, he apologized for being late since he was busy with a mitzvah. They said, "No need to worry." They told him what happened, and he said to his son, "You caused the tree to bring fruit before its time; may it be that you will pass before your time." He also had a gorgeous daughter. Once he saw a man making a hole in a wall to see his daughter. He asked what the man was doing. The man replied that he did not merit to marry her, but at least was it forbidden to look? Rabbi Yose said to his daughter, "Since you are the cause of the people stumbling, may you return to dust." Rabbi Yose's student deduced from here, "If he does not have pity on his son and daughter, I am in danger!" - and left. Rava decreed a fast, but the rain did not come. They told him, "When Rav Yehudah fasted, rain would always come." Rava agreed. He said, "When he took off one shoe, it already rained." What is this story? Rav Yehudah once saw people throwing bread. He said, "Better there should be a famine," and so it was. The Sages asked his assistant, Rav Kahana, to take him into the market. Rav Yehudah saw a long line and asked, "What is this?" Rav Kahana told him, "People line up for flour from date pits." Rav Yehudah said, "It must be that a famine came; we need to proclaim a fast." On strict fasts, wearing leather shoes is prohibited, and Rav Yehudah asked his assistant to remove his shoes. As soon as the first one was off, the rain came. Elijah, the prophet, rushed to say, "Do not take off another shoe, or else God will destroy the world." But often, owing to the extreme shame and humiliation of the Sages who could not bring the rain, the rain would indeed come. Art: Study Of A Fig Tree by John Singer Sargent Talk to MosesAI about it