Yoma 69 - Can one remove the desire to do evil? While waiting for the goat to arrive in the desert, the High Priest sits in the part of the Temple called "Women's Courtyard," where one is permitted to sit. They bring him the Torah. He stands up, receives it, and reads passages about Yom Kippur. If he wants to do this in the linen white garments in which he was performing the service, he is allowed to, or else he can use his own garments. In general, can Kohanim wear the service garments outside the Temple? Let us consider the following story. During the time of Shimon the Righteous, the Karaites convinced Alexander Macedon that Jews were organizing a rebellion, and he went to destroy Jerusalem. Shimon, the High Priest, donned his garments and went to meet him. Both parties walked all night and met at sunrize when Alexander descended from his chariot and bowed down to Shimon. He explained that he saw this man in a vision every time he went to battle, praying for him. Alexander then gave the Karaites into the hands of the Jews, who dragged them tied to horses to the Karaite Temple on Mount Gerizim, and destroyed it. From this story, we see that a Kohen is allowed to wear his garments outside! - Maybe these were not the real garments but only similar to them. In proving that one can indeed sit in the Women's Courtyard, the Talmud quotes a phrase from Nehemiah. It then continues with the events of that time. The Sages observed that the Evil Inclination has already succeeded in convincing people to worship idols, which led to the First Temple's destruction, and they fasted and prayed for three days for God to remove it. They were given this, and it came out of the Holy of Holies in the form of the roaring lion made of fire. They hid it away in a special magical vessel made of lead, and the desire to worship idols was much weakened. Seeing that they had favor with God, they asked to destroy the desire for forbidden relations. When this was granted, the world stopped functioning and they could not even find a fresh egg for a sick person. Some say the "fresh egg" is the prayer on Shabbat, and it was not special like it always is. Understanding that they would not be granted to remove the desire only for forbidden relations, they were at least able to abolish the urge for one's relatives. Art: Still Life With Jugs And Eggs by Theodule Augustine Ribot Talk to MosesAI about it